Refactor the Calling Java Code from Ballerina guide (#3311)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: learn/guides/calling-java-code-from-ballerina.md

active: calling-java-code-from-ballerina
intro: Ballerina offers a straightforward way to call the existing Java code from Ballerina. Although Ballerina is not designed to be a JVM language, the current implementation, which targets the JVM, aka jBallerina, provides Java interoperability by adhering to the Ballerina language semantics.
redirect_from:
  - /learn/how-to-use-java-interoperability
  - /learn/how-to-use-java-interoperability/
  - /learn/how-to-call-java-code-from-ballerina
  - /learn/how-to-call-java-code-from-ballerina/
  - /learn/calling-java-code-from-ballerina
  - /swan-lake/learn/calling-java-code-from-ballerina
  - /swan-lake/learn/calling-java-code-from-ballerina/
  - /learn/user-guide/calling-java-code-from-ballerina
  - /learn/user-guide/calling-java-code-from-ballerina/
  - /learn/user-guide/interoperability/calling-java-code-from-ballerina
  - /learn/user-guide/interoperability/calling-java-code-from-ballerina/
  - /learn/user-guide/interoperability/
  - /learn/user-guide/interoperability
  - /learn/calling-java-code-from-ballerina-and-vice-versa
  - /learn/calling-java-code-from-ballerina-and-vice-versa/
---

## Writing Ballerina Bindings

> We have introduced a CLI tool called `bindgen` to ease the process of generating Ballerina bindings for given Java APIs. This guide shows you how to use it, if you need more details on how the bindgen tool works, you can refer its reference guide [here](/learn/java-interoperability/the-bindgen-tool/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bindgen` is a CLI tool, which eases the process of generating Ballerina bindings for given Java APIs. This guide shows you how to use it. For more details on how the bindgen tool works, see [The `bindgen` Tool](/learn/java-interoperability/the-bindgen-tool/).
```

> The [Package Layout Guide](/learn/organizing-ballerina-code/package-layout/) explains how to package Java libraries (JAR files) with Ballerina programs. When you generate bindings for a Java library using the bindgen tool, this part is already handled. However, you could gain an in-depth understanding of how Java libraries and their transitive dependencies are packaged with Ballerina programs to produce self-contained executable programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Package Layout Guide](/learn/organizing-ballerina-code/package-layout/) explains how to package Java libraries (JAR files) with Ballerina programs. When you generate bindings for a Java library using the bindgen tool, this part is already handled. However, you could gain an in-depth understanding of how Java libraries and their transitive dependencies are packaged with Ballerina programs to produce self-contained executable programs.
```
Shall we provide the link to gain the in-depth understanding?

Author: Combined the last sentence with the first one since it seems a bit redundant. The `[Package Layout Guide](/learn/organizing-ballerina-code/package-layout/)` is the link that it talks about.

The [Ballerina FFI Guide](/learn/java-interoperability/ballerina-ffi/) explains how to write these bindings manually. It is also a useful section for those who want to understand the inner workings of calling Java from Ballerina and for those who want to customize the bindings generated by the bindgen tool.

## Using the SnakeYAML Java Library in Ballerina

> SnakeYAML is a YAML parser for Java. In this section, we'll learn how to use this library to parse a YAML document using Ballerina. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SnakeYAML is a YAML parser for Java. In this section, you will learn how to use this library to parse a YAML document using Ballerina. 
```
Please change all occurrences of `we` to `you`.

Author: Done.

> We'll develop a Ballerina program that parses the given YAML file and writes the content to the standard out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will develop a Ballerina program that parses the given YAML file and writes the content to the standard out.
```

> Let's get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get started.
```
This line is redundant.

### Step 1 - Writing the Java Code
It is recommended to always start by writing the Java code. It gives you an idea of the set of Java classes required to implement your logic. Then, we can use the `bindgen` tool to generate Ballerina bindings for those classes. 

> The Java code below uses the SnakeYAML API to parse the given YAML file. Note that this is not the most idiomatic way of writing the Java code for this scenario. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Java code below uses the SnakeYAML API to parse the given YAML file. 

>**Note:** This is not the most idiomatic way of writing the Java code for this scenario. 
```

Reviewer: Should we explain the most idiomatic way also if this is not it?

Author: No, it is a Java specific thing that we don't need to get into details.

```java
import org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml;

import java.io.FileInputStream;
import java.io.InputStream;
import java.util.Map;

public class SnakeYamlSample {

    public static void main(String... a) {
	    String filename = a[0];
        try (InputStream inputStream = new FileInputStream(filename)) {
            Yaml yaml = new Yaml();
            Map<String, Object> obj = yaml.load(inputStream);
            System.out.println(obj);
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.err.println("The file '" + filename + "' cannot be loaded. Reason: " + e.getMessage());;
        }
    }
}
```

Here, we've used four Java classes. 
- `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml`
- `java.io.FileInputStream`
- `java.io.InputStream`
- `java.util.Map`

> You can see them in the imported class list. We encourage you to generate Ballerina bindings for these four classes as a start.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see them in the imported class list. 

>**Tip:** We encourage you to generate Ballerina bindings for these four classes as a start.  
```

Now, we'll create an environment for our Ballerina program. 

### Step 2 - Setting Up the Ballerina Package

> This section assumes that you have already read the [Package Layout](/learn/user-guide/ballerina-packages/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section assumes that you have already read the [Package Layout](/learn/user-guide/ballerina-packages/) guide.
```
Instead of adding this as step 2 shall we make it an info box as a prerequisite?

#### Creating a Ballerina Package
```sh
> bal new yaml_package
Created new Ballerina package 'yaml_package' at yaml_package.
```

#### Verifying the Package
```sh
> cd yaml_package
> bal build
Compiling source
	sameera/yaml_package:0.1.0

> Generating executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generating executable.
```

Author: Let's leave it as it is since it is a command output.

	target/bin/yaml_package.jar
```
```sh
> bal run target/bin/yaml_package.jar
Hello World!
```
Great! You are all set for the next step.

#### Adding a Sample YAML File 

> Copy the below content to a file named `invoice.yml` in the package root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the content below to a file named `invoice.yml` in the package root directory.
```

Author: Fixed.

```yaml
invoice: 34843
date   : 2001-01-23
bill-to: &id001
   given  : Chris
   family : Dumars
   address:
       lines: |
           458 Walkman Dr.
           Suite #292
       city    : Royal Oak
       state   : MI
       postal  : 48046
ship-to: *id001
product:
   - sku         : BL394D
     quantity    : 4
     description : Basketball
     price       : 450.00
   - sku         : BL4438H
     quantity    :
     description : Super Hoop
     price       : 2392.00
tax  : 251.42
total: 4443.52
comments: >
   Late afternoon is best.
   Backup contact is Nancy
   Billsmer @ 338-4338.\
```

### Step 3 - Generating the Ballerina Bindings 

> In this step, we'll use the `bindgen` tool to generate Ballerina bindings for those four classes that we talked about in Step 1. If you want more information about the tool, you can refer [The `bindgen` tool](#the-bindgen-tool) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we'll use the `bindgen` tool to generate Ballerina bindings for those four classes that we talked about in Step 1. If you want more information about the tool, see [The `bindgen` tool](#the-bindgen-tool).
```
Shall we link to step 1 from her?

Author: Done.

```sh
> bal bindgen -mvn org.yaml:snakeyaml:1.25 org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml java.io.FileInputStream java.io.InputStream java.util.Map

Ballerina package detected at: /Users/sameera/yaml_package

Resolving maven dependencies...
snakeyaml-1.25.jar 100% [===============================================] 297/297 KB (0:00:01 / 0:00:00)

Updated the `Ballerina.toml` file with the new platform libraries.

The following JARs were added to the classpath:
	snakeyaml-1.25.jar

Generating bindings for:
	java.util.Map
	java.io.FileInputStream
	org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml
	java.io.InputStream

Generating dependency bindings for:
	org.yaml.snakeyaml.introspector.BeanAccess
	java.util.function.BiFunction
	org.yaml.snakeyaml.DumperOptions$FlowStyle
	...
	...
```

- The `-mvn` option specifies the Maven dependency of the Java library required to generate bindings.
- The argument list specifies the Java class names. 

The `bindgen` tool generates bindings for:

> - The specified Java classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the specified Java classes
```

Author: Done.

> - The Java classes exposed in the public APIs of all the specified classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the Java classes exposed in the public APIs of all the specified classes
```

Author: Done.

> Before we move onto the next step, let’s verify the generated code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we move onto the next step, let’s verify the generated code. 
```
Shall we make this also a step?

Author: It's not exactly another step, it's just doing a normal build to verify what you have done.

```sh
> bal build
... 
...

Generating executable
	target/bin/yaml_package.jar

> bal run target/bin/yaml_package.jar
Hello World!
```

### Step 4 - Writing the Ballerina Code
Now, we’ll use the generated bindings and write the Ballerina code, which uses the SnakeYAML library. Here is the Java code. Let’s develop the corresponding Ballerina code step by step. 
```java
public class SnakeYamlSample {

    public static void main(String... a) {
        String filename = a[0];
        try (InputStream inputStream = new FileInputStream(filename)) {
            Yaml yaml = new Yaml();
            Map<String, Object> obj = yaml.load(inputStream);
            System.out.println(obj);
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.err.println("The file '" + filename + "' cannot be loaded. Reason: " + e.getMessage());;
        }
    }
}
```

#### Creating the `FileInputStream`

> Our goal here is to create a new `java.io.FileInputStream` instance from the filename. In Step 3, we generated bindings for the required Java classes. The following is the code snippet that does the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal here is to create a new `java.io.FileInputStream` instance from the filename. In Step 3, we generated bindings for the required Java classes. The following is the code snippet that does the job.
```
Shall we link to step 3 from here?

Author: Done.

```ballerina
javaio:FileInputStream | javaio:FileNotFoundException fileInputStream = javaio:newFileInputStream3(filename);
```

Here, `FileInputStream` is the Ballerina class generated for the `java.io.FileInputStream` class.

> - Ballerina bindings for each Java package are mapped onto a separate Ballerina module by default. Therefore, you need to import them when using them inside other modules. Here the `java.io` Ballerina module (mapping the corresponding Java package) is imported as `javaio`. However, if you wish to generate all the bindings inside a single directory you can do so by using the `[(-o|--output) <output-path>]` command option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ballerina bindings for each Java package are mapped onto a separate Ballerina module by default. Therefore, you need to import them when using them inside other modules. Here, the `java.io` Ballerina module (mapping the corresponding Java package) is imported as `javaio`. However, if you wish to generate all the bindings inside a single directory, you can do so by using the `[(-o|--output) <output-path>]` command option.
```

Author: Done.

- You can find functions that start with `newFileInputStream` in the generated code. Each such function creates a new `java.io.FileInputStream` instance. Ballerina does not support function overloading. Therefore, the bindgen tool generates a separate Ballerina function for each overloaded method or constructor. We will improve the function names of the generated bindings in a future release. 

> - All the public instance methods in the `java.io.FileInputStream` class are mapped to methods in the generated Ballerina class. You can refer [the `bindgen` tool](#the-bindgen-tool) section for more details on how other Java class members are mapped into Ballerina bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All the public instance methods in the `java.io.FileInputStream` class are mapped to methods in the generated Ballerina class. You can refer [the `bindgen` tool](#the-bindgen-tool) section for more details on how other Java class members are mapped into Ballerina bindings.
```
Please follow the consistent format in adding reference links. See above review comments and fix all occurrences.

Author: Done.

Next, we’ll handle the error using a type guard.
```ballerina
if fileInputStream is javaio:FileNotFoundException {
	// The type of fileInputStream is FileNotFoundException within this block
    io:println("The file '" + filename + "' cannot be loaded. Reason: " + fileInputStream.message());
} else {
	// The type of fileInputStream is FileInputStream within this block
}
```
#### Creating the SnakeYAML Entry Point
The `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml` class is the entry point to the SnakeYAML API. The generated corresponding Ballerina class is `Yaml`. The `newYaml1()` function is mapped to the default constructor of the Java class. Let's import the `org.yaml.snakeyaml` Ballerina module as `snakeyaml`.
```ballerina
snakeyaml:Yaml yaml = snakeyaml:newYaml1();
```
####  Loading the YAML Document

> We'll be using the `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml.load(InputStream is)` method to get a Java Map instance from the given `InputStream`. Since, the `Object` Ballerina class (the mapping of `java.lang.Object` class) resides inside the `java.lang` module, let's import it as `javalang`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll be using the `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml.load(InputStream is)` method to get a Java Map instance from the given `InputStream`. Since the `Object` Ballerina class (the mapping of `java.lang.Object` class) resides inside the `java.lang` module, let's import it as `javalang`.
```

Author: Done.

> Notice how even though we didn't explicitly generate the `java.lang.Object` class, it has been generated automatically since it is exposed through the public APIs of generated classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how even though we didn't explicitly generate the `java.lang.Object` class, it has been generated automatically since it is exposed through the public APIs of generated classes.
```
Shall we make this a note section?

Author: Done.

```ballerina
javalang:Object mapObj = yaml.load(fileInputStream);
```

> The `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml.load(InputStream is)` is a generic method. The bindgen tool does not support Java generics at the moment. That is why the corresponding Ballerina method returns an Object.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `org.yaml.snakeyaml.Yaml.load(InputStream is)` is a generic method. The bindgen tool does not support Java generics at the moment. That is why the corresponding Ballerina method returns an object.  
```

Author: Changed it to `java.lang.Object`.

####  Printing the Returned Map Instance

> You can print the content of the Map instance in the standard out as follows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can print the content of the map instance in the standard out as follows. 
```

Author: Changed it to `java.util.Map`.

```ballerina
io:println(mapObj);
```
#### Completing the Code 

> Here, is the complete code. You can replace the contents in `main.bal` with the following code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the complete code. You can replace the contents in `main.bal` with the following code.
```

Author: Done.
